[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Roughly 500 miles southeast
of Mexico City lies the ancient
ruins known as Palenque.
The English translation for
"palenque" is "platform arena."
And this powerful site is known
to house some of the finest
architecture,
sculpture, and carvings
that the Maya civilization
ever produced.
Although mainstream
has dated these ruins
to be around 226 BC,
alternative researchers
point to the clues that
lie in the foundations
under this sophisticated
Maya arena that
point to a prediluvian
civilization
in this region of Mexico 10,000
years before the Maya ever
found it.
>> The ancient complex of
Palenque is one of the most
mysterious archaeological
sites in all of the Yucatan
of Mexico.
It stands apart from
other Mayan sites.
Geographically, it's
very, very different,
in a different location
from Chichen-Itza and Tulum
and other sites like that, set
by itself in a higher elevation
in a dense, dense jungle.
And of the many
sites on the complex,
perhaps the most
mysterious is the temple
that's called the Temple
of the Inscriptions.
In this particular
temple, it is the site
that has the longest
contiguous record
of a glyphic nature of
hieroglyphs covering
180 years of Mayan history.
Over 600 glyphs covering
>> There is a collection
of three main temples
at Palenque--
the Temple of the Sun, the
Cross, and the Foliated Cross.
Several notable buildings
are the Temple of the Jaguar,
the Palace, and the Temple of
the Inscriptions, which holds
some interesting information.
It consists of an
eight-stepped pyramid
with a total of nine levels.
The five entrances
in the front are
surrounded by
Mayan inscriptions,
for which the temple is named.
>> When we look at Palenque,
we see a city that was built
in three stages or three levels.
We have the Early, Middle,
and Late Classic Periods.
And during each one of these
periods, cities were built.
Now in the Early Period,
which is very, very ancient,
they use megalithic
technology to build this city.
And in the Middle Period,
people came and built directly
on top of that again.
What you see as you look
into these ancient cultures,
they like to build
directly on top
of what the ancients built on.
Because they knew that the
ancients picked the right spot.
They knew that it had the
right magnetic frequency
and the right resonance,
the right location.
It took a lot of the
thinking out of building.
What it shows us, though,
is that the people there
had really significantly
inherited--
it was a very highly
populated area.
Most densely populated
by the Mayans.
But the Mayans
truly didn't build
any of these structures
going all the way back
to the Early Period.
This is some real
super deep antiquity
beings that came here
and built that area up.
And then what happened was we
had people come and build right
on top of it.
The Mayans literally inherited
what was already there.
>> So the Olmecs were a
civilization that predated
the Mayans.
They may have been
more advanced.
No one is really sure
where they came from.
But their religion and their
beliefs and their culture
are embedded throughout
their structures,
throughout their culture,
throughout the things
they left behind.
Palenque was built
in three tiers.
The Olmecs really loved
to build according
to the contours of the land.
They were really into
having their ball courts.
And when we look at the
structures of Palenque
and how Palenque is
built, we see absolutely
that the temples
and all the plazas
were built around the
contours of the land.
And a lot of this
centered around a big ball
court, which is a central
feature of their culture.
All of these kind
of things would
have been influenced from
the previous Olmec culture.
So what this seems
to suggest to me
is that the Olmecs
way predate the Mayans
and that the Mayans
built on and were
influenced by what the Olmecs
had left behind for them.
>> Mayan architecture is
a repository of ancient
astronomical knowledge
possessed by the Mayan
archaeo-astronomers.
Researchers or archaeologists
refer to this as astronomical
hierophanies.
And what this means is that
these Mayan archaeo-astronomers
were trying to draw down
powers into their temples.
And in so doing, they
were then able to enter
into the energy or frequency
of those star systems.
We find this, for example, at El
Castillo, where, twice a year,
the Sun would cast the
shadow on the pyramid.
And we would see the image of
a serpent winding its way down
the pyramid.
This symbolized Kukulkan,
the feathered serpent,
descending from the
heavens to the Earth plane.
And therefore, El Castillo
became a conduit or a portal
between Earth and the heavens.
So what these
archaeo-astronomers are doing,
again, is linking
Earth with the heavens
and drawing down the
power of the stars
and creating essentially
a mirror effect.
As above, so below.
>> Part of what we see in the
complex of Palenque is that
much of it was dedicated to
astronomical observations.
So once again, as we
find in other places
throughout the Yucatan as well
as into the Inca civilization,
the studies of Orion,
the studies of Sirius,
Venus, the studies of the Sun,
and the studies of the Moon,
are all key in the hieroglyphs
and in the observatories
that we see in Palenque itself.
So when we're looking at
this kind of knowledge,
we have to ask, where did
the knowledge come from?
Where did the knowledge to
build these complex pyramids
and structures come from?
The people that live there today
say that the Mayans did not
build these structures.
They say that they were there
when the Mayans arrived.
The Mayans certainly made use
of them and added on to them.
Just as we see in Machu
Picchu and other places,
they were built in phases.
So when we look at
the site of Palenque,
rather than thinking of one
complex and one moment of time,
we may very possibly
be seeing a contiguous
record of a history
that goes back much,
much further we've
been led to believe
through traditional history.
And the quality of
the architecture,
the depth of the cosmological
and mathematic knowledge
are contemporary with those
that we see in sites much,
much older.
>> According to
mainstream scholars,
the Maya civilization began
around 250 and lasted roughly
until the year 900.
Long known for their Tzolkin
calendar, which mysteriously
stops at the year 2012, the
celestial tracking technology
baffles the minds of
alternative researchers
and points them to look
deeper into the origins
of the Maya and their quest
to connect with the cosmos.
>> As far as the
complex is concerned,
it would seem to have been
the central focus of various
astronomical alignments of
great significance that give us
a powerful understanding
about what the Maya believed.
And in particular,
there are two temples.
One is known as the
Temple of the Cross,
and the other is known as the
Temple of the Foliated Cross.
They gained their name
from beautiful carvings
inside them of the
cosmic tree of the Maya.
It's actually not a tree.
It's actually the maize plant.
But it looks like
a tree in design.
And this is actually
an astronomical symbol.
And two horizontal branches that
come out from the cosmic tree
represent the path
that the Sun crosses
the Milky Way, which is known
as the path of the ecliptic.
And this very clearly
is symbolizing
the contact between
the earthly domain
and what is known in Mayan
tradition as Xibalba.
And Xibalba, we interpret
it as underworld.
Which to be honest, is probably
not quite right, really.
I mean, it's more the other
world or the place of the dead.
And Xibalba was reached through
a journey along the Milky Way
from the point where this cross
on the cosmic tree is found.
And that is in the area of the
constellation of Sagittarius.
If you continue up the
tree, in astronomical terms,
there is what's known
as the Great Rift, which
is a dark patch that goes down
the center line of the Milky
Way.
And right at that spot
is the constellation
we know today as
the Northern Cross,
or Cygnus, the celestial bird.
And this is represented
in Maya tradition
by a bird that sits on
the top of the tree known
as Seven Macaw.
And this connection with
the constellation of Cygnus
is found at Palenque in
the alignment of the Temple
of the Foliated Cross.
Because that's aligned
perfectly onto the setting
of the bright star Deneb in
the constellation of Cygnus.
So these two crosses, the
Northern Cross and the Southern
Cross, were the extreme limits
of where the soul would go to
in Maya tradition.
And in other words, the Milky
Way was like a road or river
into the different
paths of the afterlife.
And we find this
all over the world.
>> At Palenque and actually
many other ancient sites around
the world, winter solstice
and summer solstice are very
important.
And the reason why is
because our ancient peoples
taught humans about
planetary alignments
and solar alignments.
Now if you're operating
star gates, for example,
and you have a solstice, you
have a particular alignment
that happens twice a
year, all of a sudden,
you have something that NASA
calls X points opening up.
At these particular
alignments, these X
points open up and create
portals and gateways
that lead out into space.
And I really do think that the
ancient cultures that came here
from another planet
knew about this
and just how they built
their stargate technology.
And that the people who were
basically being ruled over
or worshipping these gods, they
learned about these alignments.
And to them, it became
part of their rituals.
>> As with several
other prediluvian sites,
the planets and stars have
played a major role for Ancient
Earth inhabitants to choose
these sacred lands to build
massive ceremonial sites.
But a closer look at the
Temple of the Inscriptions
uncovers a deeper mystery
to this sacred site.
>> It was in 1952 that an
archaeologist was working
at the site.
They knew about the
inscriptions and they knew
how significant the site was.
He happened to look at the
floor in a different way.
And on this particular
day, he looked at a tile
on the floor that
had evenly spaced
holes, two rows of holes.
And he recognized
that those holes
were designed to
reach into the tile
and lift the tile
away from the floor.
And when he did that,
what was revealed
was a staircase down to
an even deeper level.
It took two seasons, two
archaeological digging seasons,
to remove all of the rubble,
all of the debris, that
had been intentionally
placed in this staircase
to protect whatever it
that was at the bottom.
Well, when they reached
the bottom, what they found
was the tomb of Pakal.
Intact, it had
never been opened.
And it existed in a
way that surprised
even the archaeologists.
Because what they
discovered was that the tomb
was a sarcophagus.
The body of the
sarcophagus was carved
from a single piece of
limestone that in and of itself
weighed 15 tons.
The lid was another
seven tons, and it
is this lid that has the
mysterious markings that
have been the subject
of so much speculation.
Because it shows
Pakal as if he were
at the control panel
of a device or a ship,
a traveling ship of some kind.
Many people have speculated
this may have been a ship
to travel beyond this planet.
We don't know for sure,
because the records
don't speak specifically
to what Pakal is doing.
This sarcophagus is so
massive that it would not
fit through any of the
openings that exist today
in the Temple of
the Inscriptions.
Which suggests that the tomb
and the sarcophagus were built
and they were placed first,
and then the entire temple
was built around this
burial for Pakal.
Pakal's tomb is
entered from the top
of the Temple of Inscriptions.
And as you go down
through the staircase,
it actually takes you to
the surface of the earth,
and then below the
earth's surface
to where the tomb
actually exists.
This is a very humid area.
A lot of rain, very moist.
It's dense jungle.
When we get down to
the lower chambers,
originally
archaeologists felt as
if they were in a cave
because of the stalactites
and the stalagmites
that had formed
from the water percolating
down through the limestone
to create these structures.
Unfortunately today,
those stalactites
and those stalagmites
no longer exist.
Some of them were broken away
by the early archaeologists.
Some of them have been broken
away more in recent times.
And the reason
this is unfortunate
is because it could have
helped us with the dating.
Now what we know typically,
it takes a long time
to form the stalactites
and the stalagmites.
The way they are formed,
however, varies from location
to location.
And all of this
evidence suggests
that the site of Palenque,
based upon the stalactites,
stalagmites, and based
upon the people themselves,
say that it is much older
than the textbooks lead
us to believe.
We're able to
carbonate Pakal's body,
and it is in the current era.
But the site itself
may have been built--
or the beginning of that
site much longer before Pakal
actually began to build
his tomb as it is today.
>> Most scholars agree that a
traditional burial sarcophagus
is typically made of some form
of wood or stone that is soft
enough to be carved
and transported.
But the 15 ton, seven feet by
12 feet limestone sarcophagus
that Pakal was buried in was
not designed to ever move
and can be compared to
the famous sarcophagus
in the King's Chamber of
the Great Pyramid in Giza.
As several researchers
throughout history
have speculated, the
stone sarcophagus
in the Great Pyramid could not
have been carried in or out
and was not designed to
be a place for burial,
but to be a highly
energized resonation
chamber for extremely powerful
spiritual experiences.
Could this sarcophagus
found in Palenque
have been part of a prediluvian
path of spiritual initiation
long before the Maya
claimed it as their own?
The sheer size
and sophistication
of the stones used
for Pakal's tomb,
the cover stone and
the stairs leading
to this otherworldly chamber,
bear a strong resemblance
to the foundation stones
found at Machu Picchu
and other ancient
megalithic sites.
This foundation is what
the Proto-Maya people
built their own structures
upon, suggesting
that the foundations of Palenque
and subterranean chambers
beneath them were created by
a prediluvian civilization.
>> Now, this is quite
unique in all of Mexico.
We don't find these kinds
of tombs very often.
In fact, many of
the pyramids there
aren't even tombs like the
same we find in Ancient Egypt.
And so when this was found
back in the mid-1900s,
this caused a sensation, because
they found this gigantic stone
sarcophagus with this
huge lid on it which
had all these precision
carvings, 3D relief
carvings all over it.
With what looked like
Pakal in some kind of space
vehicle being shot
up into the sky.
Now that's the kind of
ancient astronaut idea.
But there's actually
a different theory
that he was actually
descending on some kind
of spiritual technology
into the underworld, where
really this tomb is located
in the Palenque site.
>> Let's take a step back from
the tomb of Pakal and look
at it very objectively.
It's right there
in front of you.
You have a man seated
in this fetal position.
He's very open.
And he's sitting in
front of a big tree.
And you can tell there's a tree
trunk that comes out of him.
You see the leaves,
you see the fruit.
And the fruit essentially is
a metaphor for the wisdom.
Like the apple in the
biblical tradition.
You ingest the fruit,
you eat the fruit,
and you take on the
knowledge of the gods.
And you keep following the
tree through Palenque's navel.
And you get to the
top of the tree,
and there's a quetzal bird.
So the bird essentially
is the metaphor
for the symbol of the soul,
for the rejuvenated spirit
of the individual.
And the other symbol that
we know why this happened
is that if you look carefully on
the perimeter of Pakal's tomb,
you have all the
different points of Venus
and how it conforms to
its particular cycle
in the scheme of things.
And Venus, when it rose before
the sunrise and the spring
equinox, which is again,
detailed on Pakal's tomb,
was the mark of
the risen initiate.
There was a phrase
that came out of this.
It was called, the initiate
who is risen from the dead.
>> Although thousands
of miles apart,
ancient cultures throughout
Central America and Egypt have
worshipped a feathered serpent.
In Egyptian mythology,
the feathered serpent
is most often associated
with rulers, kings or queens.
Usually as protectors
or guardians.
The mythological figure of the
feathered or plumed serpent
is depicted throughout
South America as Kukulkan
to the Maya and
Quetzalcoatl to the Aztecs.
With evidence mounting that
this sarcophagus may have been
placed long before the Temple
of the Inscriptions was built,
the question becomes, how long
before the temple was built?
If Palenque seems to represent
this serpent imagery and belief
system, could there
be another connection
between the two civilizations?
>> When we look at
Mayan symbolism and look
for correspondences
around the world,
we find a very important
one to Ancient Egypt.
The link is Lord
Pakal's sarcophagus lid,
which is the Ancient Mayans'
most prized artifact.
In fact, it's one
of the greatest
archaeological
discoveries in the world.
What is important
about this is that when
Lord Pakal is shown in his
tomb, he has a green jade mask.
He becomes the maize god.
He's effectively
becoming the green man.
He is, to the Ancient
Egyptians, Osiris.
And his lid portrays
him on the tree
of life, which is identical
in symbolism to a device
that we find at Abydos that
I call the Osiris device.
So what we're seeing
here is, in fact,
Lord Pakal in the
act of resurrection.
That correspondence
can't be by chance.
And the idea that
they're both in the act
of regenerating or renewing
or resurrecting themselves
affirms this connection.
>> Central America was one
of the main territories that
Atlantean civilization
was taking care
of because of the portals
that you have there.
Mainly because of
the telluric energy
that is moving there from all
the middle part of Mexico.
Every one of the portals,
every one of the gates,
was controlled by someone
called a Blue One.
The Atlanteans were normal
people but ruled or guided
by the Blue Ones.
And those Blue Ones
were like the leaders
of each one of their nodes.
So as Krishna, for example,
is a Blue One in Asia, Osiris,
a Blue One in Egypt, Pakal
was a Blue One for Mexico.
So they were the leaders
of the territory,
the guides of the families.
So they were the keepers of
the portals and taking care
that everything was according to
what the main civilization was
saying.
>> Northwest of Palenque, in the
sacred Olmec site known as La
Venta, massive stone heads,
which are carved from nearly
impenetrable basalt, along with
green jade masks that share
similar features with the
mask found in Palenque,
connect Lord Pakal to a
possible Olmec bloodline.
But when were they
in this region?
A defining prediluvian
link is found
in the ancient Olmec carving
labeled Stela 19, which
contains the serpent
depiction of Kukulkan
and an ancient handbag nearly
identical to the handbags
depicted in the
Assyrian Tree of Life.
If Mayan, Hindu, Egyptian,
Sumerian, and Olmec symbolism
are similar, could
that mean that they all
shared the same ancestors?
>> The local tradition talks
about how a group of gods
called the Itz originally
came from a sunken land
in the middle of the great
ocean in the east called Atl,
from where we get
the word "Atlantic."
And they arrive in the
Yucatan Peninsula in 9600 BC.
Now that's a very
definite moment in time.
And it happens to be within 100
years of the known time of when
the flood subsided.
So it's a historical
moment where
these survivors from this place
in the middle of the Atlantic
arrive in the Yucatan, and
slowly they made their way
south towards Palenque.
And they set up the
original temples.
Now over time,
because of the way
that the temple is aligned
to these specific stars,
the stars begin to move.
Now to make the temple
do what it does,
it has to be always
perfectly aligned
to the background of the stars.
So Palenque keeps growing
and growing and growing.
There are pyramids within
pyramids within pyramids.
So what we see in the
classic time of Palenque
and especially the
main building, which
is the Temple of
Inscriptions, if you look
at the alignment
of that building
relative to the horizon,
it matches the position
of the constellation
of Draco, which
is the celestial dragon
or the celestial serpent
exactly on the winter
solstice of 3110 BC.
Ironically the same day that
the first king in Egypt, Menna,
the first pharaoh, and I quote,
of a purely human bloodline,
takes the throne.
Now what are those two
overlapping, I wonder?
And secondly, because
the people who
originally built Palenque
who were the Itz,
they were called the Akanul.
And it literally means "the
people of the serpent."
So in all manner of
speaking, Palenque
is a place where the people
of the serpent set up shop.
And it was a place where
the knowledge of the gods
was instigated and also
played out and taught
to the local people over
many thousands of years.
And the person
who came to embody
that wisdom in the
historical period
was Pakal, from whom
we know so much.
>> When we look at the
Temple of Inscriptions,
we think of it being
dedicated to the Lord Pakal.
That's how history tells us.
But many, many researchers say
it's thousands of years older.
And it's a point where you have
earth energies that converge
there and emerge there.
And it creates a spiderweb
of energetic field.
And it's feeding into it
and releasing it outwards.
So if you imagine energy
coming in and energy going out.
Energy coming in,
energy going out.
It is highly, highly energetic
and far more than just a tomb.
And because it's a convergence
and emergence point,
this can, for very
short amounts of time,
be very healing if you
enter that energy field.
So I don't think it's
about death, that temple.
I think it's about the living.
And I think that's
what the ancients had
the purpose for originally.
>> Could this sacred site have
been a powerful healing place
along the ancient Atlantean
initiatic path in prediluvian
times?
What other connections
can we find
that may link this
sacred land to the stars?
>> The separation between
the Caribbean Plateau with
the North American Plateau
and then the Antilles Islands,
all this territory
creates so much energy.
The main line of
energy that divides
Central America
from North America
is actually in the territory
where Palenque was built.
So it was built as a
city of connection,
as a city where the
people from the South
and the people from the North
would gather there and have
the meetings to talk
about the future,
about things that are
happening, and so on.
So the wise people would
go to this territory
that we call Palenque
today to have
these meetings and these great
ceremonies that were something
to say, we are still together.
We are working
for this together,
to connect the whole planet.
So this place was the main
gate for union, for unity.
And in the skies,
that constellation
of unity, of wealth,
of being fine
is the Taurus constellation,
with its heart,
which is Pleiades.
>> Could the secrets of
Palenque lead us to a much older
prediluvian existence here
in the mysterious land
of the Mayan Empire?
Was this a place of
healing and connection?
Teaching the ancients how
to unite with the stars
and harness their true power.
As the torrential
storms and flooding
destroyed some of the evidence,
the heroes of humanity
were guided back to this sacred
land, possibly several times,
to reconnect with the
stars and eventually build
this sacred arena
for us to discover.
There are few answers
explaining what
happened to the Mayan Empire.
But questions remain about
their leader, Lord Pakal,
and his connection to
the ancient knowledge
of how to connect with the power
of this area of the planet.
As with all ancient cultures,
the question remains--
who inspired them?
And what was happening
around these sacred lands
before the end of the world?